# Humanoid Robot Ajit 2.0
This robot is built at KLE Technological University as an Institutional Research Project by students of Automation and Robotics Departments Akshay DR, Karthik Holleyannwar and Subhramanya studying in their final year of Bachelor of Engineering. The main objective of this project is to assist in the social inclusion of elderly person and young person with disabilities. It is found that because of societal changes, social inclusion is going to be one of the major issue. Presently, the world is aging. Over 13% of world’s population is comprised of old aged. This is going to rise 3% every year according to survey conducted by US in 2018. So, we are building a development platform to test hardware framework in assisting these people. The hardware framework can act as a readymade platform to develop, test and deploy new software and features for suitable kind of application. 

Humanoid walking has many advantages when compared to other locomotion techniques. Normal four-wheeled locomotion would not be effective on uneven surfaces. Hence, legged motion has significant advantages over traditional locomotion techniques. Research and development on this has been constantly improving during the last few decades. A stable walking gait is developed using model based design. Though legged locomotion is the most superior form of locomotion, however, in some situations wheeled locomotion would be stable and faster. Keeping this in mind, a hybrid robot is developed wherein it is able to shift from wheeled locomotion to legged locomotion and vice versa in very short time.

A 24 DOF humanoid robot is developed. The robot contains Intel NUC as the main controller and an Intel Movidiuous for fast neural processing. The head has Intel Realsense camera for object analytics and OLED display for expressing emotions. Microphone is attached for speech recognition and speakers are present for talking. Each hand has 5 DOF which can be used for gestures and also pick and place small objects. Dynamixel actuators are used. Robot is capable of both legged locomotion and wheeled locomotion. Detachable wheel base is being developed. Robot is modelled using SolidWorks. All joints are 3D printed. Latest technology is used in this robot such as fast processors and smart actuators. A total investment of approximately 12 Lakh is spent to bring this project to life.

The robot will assist elderly people, children and people with disabilities by reading news, reading emails, remind to take medicine, give some entertainment by singing a song or telling a joke and even dance. This robot can detect if a person has fallen and needs human assistance and immediately acts accordingly. It will constantly monitor health and also inform nearby hospital during an emergency situation using its inbuilt GSM module. The robot can also motivate people by teaching them exercises and keep them healthy. Most of the old aged people have trouble using present technology so this robot can help them in making some phone calls or sending text messages by just giving simple voice commands. We all know there is Google Assistant or Siri or similar kinds of applications and software to do this. But it is more fun and easy to talk to a robot which looks like a human rather than talking to a still device. The robot is capable of mapping the area around it remember it to navigate next time when it is left in the same area using depth camera. If left in a new place where it does not have any memory of being there, it can automatically move in all directions until a loop closure is detected and it will know its environment around. This might take some time but it is a one-time job.

These Humanoid Robots are very useful in huge number of applications. It can be used in hospitals for assisting patients, supporting handicapped by providing support leg. Can be used in military applications such as soldier assistance during war, land mine disarming and much more. Hotels can use these robots to attract customers and also assist in serving food. All the necessary modules are packed into one single system which makes it easier to develop new feature without changing any physical parts. 
humanoid_biped
REU humanoid waliking
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbMTE1MjM1ODczNV19
-->