## Objective	
For any project, defining the objective or problem statement is the first step. Objective is nothing but the purpose of the project. We will have to answer to why, what and where questions while defining the objective. These are nothing but why do we need to build this project? What is the purpose or outcome of the project? Where will this be useful in the real world?  

The main objective of this project is to assist in the social inclusion of the elderly person and young person with disabilities. It is found that because of societal changes, social inclusion is going to be one of the major issues. Presently, the world is ageing. Over 13% of the world’s population is comprised of old aged. This is going to rise 3% every year according to a survey conducted by the US in 2018. So, we are building a development platform to test hardware framework in assisting these people. The hardware framework can act as a readymade platform to develop, test and deploy new software and features for suitable kind of application.

These Humanoid Robots are very useful in a huge number of applications. It can be used in hospitals for assisting patients, supporting handicapped by providing support leg. Can be used in military applications such as soldier assistance during war, land mine disarming and much more. Hotels can use these robots to attract customers and also assist in serving food. All the necessary modules are packed into one single system which makes it easier to develop new feature without changing any physical parts.
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbLTMwMzcyNjE4M119
-->